DOCSUP-14511: Document custom query for database dictionaries (#30931)
ClickHouse/ClickHouse: docs/en/sql-reference/dictionaries/external-dictionaries/external-dicts-dict-sources.md

You can use this method to connect any database that has an ODBC driver.

Example of settings:

``` xml
<source>
    <odbc>
        <db>DatabaseName</db>
        <table>ShemaName.TableName</table>
        <connection_string>DSN=some_parameters</connection_string>
        <invalidate_query>SQL_QUERY</invalidate_query>
        <query>SELECT id, value_1, value_2 FROM ShemaName.TableName</query>
    </odbc>
</source>
```

or

``` sql
SOURCE(ODBC(
    db 'DatabaseName'
    table 'SchemaName.TableName'
    connection_string 'DSN=some_parameters'
    invalidate_query 'SQL_QUERY'
    query 'SELECT id, value_1, value_2 FROM db_name.table_name'
))
```

Setting fields:

-   `db` – Name of the database. Omit it if the database name is set in the `<connection_string>` parameters.
-   `table` – Name of the table and schema if exists.
-   `connection_string` – Connection string.
-   `invalidate_query` – Query for checking the dictionary status. Optional parameter. Read more in the section [Updating dictionaries](../../../sql-reference/dictionaries/external-dictionaries/external-dicts-dict-lifetime.md).
-   `query` – The custom query. Optional parameter.

!!! info "Note"

>     The `table` and `query` fields cannot be used together. And there must be one of the sources of either `table` or `query`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The `table` and `query` fields cannot be used together. And either one of the `table` or `query` fields must be declared.
```

-   `fail_on_connection_loss` – The configuration parameter that controls behavior of the server on connection loss. If `true`, an exception is thrown immediately if the connection between client and server was lost. If `false`, the ClickHouse server retries to execute the query three times before throwing an exception. Note that retrying leads to increased response times. Default value: `false`.

-   `query` – The custom query. Optional parameter.

!!! info "Note"

>     The `table` or `where` fields cannot be used together with the `query` field. And there must be one of the sources of either `table` or `query`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The `table` or `where` fields cannot be used together with the `query` field. And either one of the `table` or `query` fields must be declared.
```

        <table>ids</table>
        <where>id=10</where>
        <secure>1</secure>

> 		<query>SELECT id, value_1, value_2 FROM default.ids</query>

Reviewer 2: This config seems to be incorrect:
```
Code: 1. DB::Exception: Received from localhost:9000. DB::Exception: Setting `table` or `where` cannot be used with `query` parameter. (UNSUPPORTED_METHOD)

```

-   `where` – The selection criteria. May be omitted.
-   `invalidate_query` – Query for checking the dictionary status. Optional parameter. Read more in the section [Updating dictionaries](../../../sql-reference/dictionaries/external-dictionaries/external-dicts-dict-lifetime.md).
-   `secure` - Use ssl for connection.
-   `query` – The custom query. Optional parameter.

!!! info "Note"

>     The `table` or `where` fields cannot be used together with the `query` field. And there must be one of the sources of either `table` or `query`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The `table` or `where` fields cannot be used together with the `query` field. And either one of the `table` or `query` fields must be declared.
```

-   `port` – The port on the Cassandra servers. If not specified, default port 9042 is used.
-   `user` – Name of the Cassandra user.
-   `password` – Password of the Cassandra user.
-   `keyspace` – Name of the keyspace (database).
-   `column_family` – Name of the column family (table).
-   `allow_filering` – Flag to allow or not potentially expensive conditions on clustering key columns. Default value is 1.
-   `partition_key_prefix` – Number of partition key columns in primary key of the Cassandra table. Required for compose key dictionaries. Order of key columns in the dictionary definition must be the same as in Cassandra. Default value is 1 (the first key column is a partition key and other key columns are clustering key).
-   `consistency` – Consistency level. Possible values: `One`, `Two`, `Three`, `All`, `EachQuorum`, `Quorum`, `LocalQuorum`, `LocalOne`, `Serial`, `LocalSerial`. Default value is `One`.
-   `where` – Optional selection criteria.
-   `max_threads` – The maximum number of threads to use for loading data from multiple partitions in compose key dictionaries.
-   `query` – The custom query. Optional parameter.

!!! info "Note"

>     The `column_family` or `where` fields cannot be used together with the `query` field. And there must be one of the sources of either `column_family` or `query`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The `column_family` or `where` fields cannot be used together with the `query` field. And either one of the `column_family` or `query` fields must be declared.
```

-   `user` – Name of the PostgreSQL user. You can specify it for all replicas, or for each one individually (inside `<replica>`).
-   `password` – Password of the PostgreSQL user. You can specify it for all replicas, or for each one individually (inside `<replica>`).
-   `replica` – Section of replica configurations. There can be multiple sections:
    -   `replica/host` – The PostgreSQL host.
    -   `replica/port` – The PostgreSQL port.
    -   `replica/priority` – The replica priority. When attempting to connect, ClickHouse traverses the replicas in order of priority. The lower the number, the higher the priority.
-   `db` – Name of the database.
-   `table` – Name of the table.
-   `where` – The selection criteria. The syntax for conditions is the same as for `WHERE` clause in PostgreSQL. For example, `id > 10 AND id < 20`. Optional parameter.
-   `invalidate_query` – Query for checking the dictionary status. Optional parameter. Read more in the section [Updating dictionaries](../../../sql-reference/dictionaries/external-dictionaries/external-dicts-dict-lifetime.md).
-   `query` – The custom query. Optional parameter.

!!! info "Note"

>     The `table` or `where` fields cannot be used together with the `query` field. And there must be one of the sources of either `table` or `query`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The `table` or `where` fields cannot be used together with the `query` field. And either one of the `table` or `query` fields must be declared.
```
